'\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH gerbera 1 2025-10-17 "" ""
.SH NAME
gerbera \- UPnP MediaServer
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.fi
.ad l
\fBgerbera\fR \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
[
\fB-h|--help\fR
] [
\fB-D|--debug\fR
] [
\fB-v|--version\fR
] [
\fB--compile-info\fR
] [
\fB--create-config=Sections\fR
] [
\fB--create-example-config=Sections\fR
] [
\fB--create-advanced-config=Sections\fR
] [
\fB--check-config\fR
] [
\fB--print-options\fR
] [
\fB--offline\fR
] [
\fB--drop-tables\fR
] [
\fB--init-lastfm\fR
] [
\fB-d|-daemon\fR
] [
\fB-u|--user \fIusername\fB
\fR] [
\fB-P|--pidfile \fIpid file\fB
\fR] [
\fB-c|--config \fIconfig file\fB
\fR] [
\fB-f|--cfgdir \fIconfig dir\fB
\fR] [
\fB-l|--logfile \fIlogfile\fB
\fR] [
\fB--rotatelog \fIlogfile\fB
\fR] [
\fB--syslog \fILOG\fB
\fR] [
\fB--add-file \fIfile\fB
\fR] [
\fB--set-option \fIopt=val\fB
\fR] [
\fB-p|--port \fIport\fB
\fR] [
\fB-i|--ip \fIIP address\fB
\fR] [
\fB-e|--interface \fIinterface\fB
\fR] [
\fB-m|--home \fIhome dir\fB
\fR] [
\fB--magic \fImagic\fB
\fR] [
\fB--import-mode \fImt|grb\fB
\fR] [
\fB-l|--debug-mode \fIfacilities\fB
\fR]
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page describes the command line parameters for
Gerbera. For a detailed documentation please see the README file which
is distributed with Gerbera or visit https://gerbera.io.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-i\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-ip\fR\*(T>
The server will bind to the given IP address, currently we can not bind to
multiple interfaces so binding to 0.0.0.0 will not be possible.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-e\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-interface\fR\*(T>
The server will bind to the given network interface, currently we can only bind
to one interface at a time.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-p\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-port\fR\*(T>
Specify the server port that will be used for the web user interface, for
serving media and for UPnP requests, minimum allowed value is 49152. If this
option is omitted a default port will be chosen, however, in this case it is
possible that the port will change upon server restart.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-u\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-user\fR\*(T>
Drop privs to user on startup. Make sure all mediafiles are readable by this user.
Also make sure that home directory is writable for this user.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-c\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-config\fR\*(T>
By default Gerbera will search for a file named "config.xml" in the ~/.config/gerbera directory.
This option allows you to specify a config file by the
name and location of your choice. The file name must be absolute.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-m\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-home\fR\*(T>
Specify an alternative home directory. By default Gerbera will try to
retrieve the users home directory from the environment (HOME), then it will look for
the .config/gerbera directory in users home. If .config/gerbera was found we will try to find
the default configuration file (config.xml).

This option is useful in two cases: when the home directory cannot be
retrieved from the environment (in this case you could also use -c to point
Gerbera to your configuration file) or when you want to test a new
configuration in a non standard location (for example, when setting up daemon
mode). In the latter case you can combine this parameter with the parameter
described in "Config Directory"
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-f\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-cfgdir\fR\*(T>
The default configuration directory is combined by the users home and the
default that equals to .config/gerbera, this option allows you to override the
default directory naming. This is useful when you want to set up the server in a
nonstandard location.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-scripts\fR\*(T>
The directory for custom javascript files can be either set in config.xml or with
this command line option.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-f\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-magic\fR\*(T>
The magic file is set/overwritten. By default it is read from environment variables GERBERA_MAGIC_FILE or MEDIATOMB_MAGIC_FILE.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-add\-file\fR\*(T>
Add the specified file name to the database without UI
interaction. The path must be absolute, if path is a directory then it will be
added recursively. If path is a file, then only the given file will be
imported.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-print\-options\fR\*(T>
Print all option numbers available for use with --set-option.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-set\-option\fR\*(T>
Set the specified option number to its proper value like in config.xml. This overwrites
values from config.xml. See --print-options for valid options.
Multiple options can either be specified sperated by commas or
with another use of --set-option.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-l\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-logfile\fR\*(T>
Do not output log messages to stdout, but redirect everything to a specified
file.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-l\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-rotatelog\fR\*(T>
Do not output log messages to stdout, but redirect everything to a specified
rotating file. It will rotate 10 files at 5MB.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-l\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-syslog\fR\*(T>
Do not output log messages to stdout, but redirect everything to syslog. The optional
argument contains the syslog facility. If no argument is given LOG_USER is used.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-D\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-debug\fR\*(T>
Enable debug log output.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-d\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-daemon\fR\*(T>
Daemonize after startup.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-compile\-info\fR\*(T>
Print the compilation configuration (defaults for used libraries and enabled features) and exit.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-create\-config=Section\fR\*(T>
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-create\-example\-config=Section\fR\*(T>
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-create\-advanced\-config=Section\fR\*(T>
Output the default/example/advanced example configuration to stdout and exit.
Copy the output to your config.xml and adjust to your needs.
You can provide the names of sections separated by | to get the section only.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-modules=Module\fR\*(T>
Activate generation of from-file attributes in Module.
You can provide the names of modules separated by | to load multiple sections as modules.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-check\-config\fR\*(T>
Check the current configuration before running the service and exit. Helpful in conjunction with --debug.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-offline\fR\*(T>
Do not answer UPnP requests like browse. This is helpful when running a large scan to initialize
the database so no client can slow down the import by accessing the database.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-drop\-tables\fR\*(T>
Drop all database tables and exit
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-init\-lastfm\fR\*(T>
Get Last.FM session key based on apiKey and apiSecret in config.
Requires Gerbera to be build with support for Last.FM API 2.0.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-\-version\fR\*(T>
Print version information and exit.
.TP
\*(T<\fB\-h\fR\*(T>, \*(T<\fB\-\-help\fR\*(T>
Print a summary about the available command line options.
